So let's plan the app
we're going to build. In this app, we'll,
well that's the idea of this module, have more than just one screen.
So in our appBar for example, we'll have a hamburger icon,
this one here which allows us to go to different places of this app because when we tap it, then we'll
actually open that site or menu here,
so we'll have a backdrop in front of the rest of the page
and then here we'll have a link so to say, a button that takes us to the meals page and one that takes
us to the settings page.
Now the meals page is actually the default which is loaded when our app starts
and we only have it in the side drawer so that we can go back there if we were on the settings page
but on the meals page, so on our starting page, we'll also have two tabs at the bottom - one basically for
all meal categories,
so all categories
and one for our favorite meals which we marked as favorite because we'll have the functionality in the
app to mark a meal as our favorite.
Now in the all categories area, if that tab is selected here,
we'll have a couple of category items here on that screen,
so something like Italian or veggie and so on,
so we'll have more of these items
and when we press one of these items here, then we are taken to a new screen and in that screen, we'll
simply list the recipes for that category.
Now there, each recipe could be such a card with an image, a title and some rough information about that
recipe, like how complex it is and so on.
So we'll basically have a list of these recipes here on this page,
a scrollable list of course
and when we then tap one of these recipes, we're taken to yet another page where we see the full details
for those recipes that we have. The image maybe and then we have the ingredients here and then also
the steps it takes to create that dish, that meal.
So that's the general flow here for our recipes.
Now when we press the settings here, we're also taken to a separate page of course, on this page,
we'll have a couple of settings, like that we only want to see gluten free meals and for each setting
which we have here, we'll have a little switch here which we can set to on or off
and that's really ugly but these are switches where we can toggle these different filters and the settings
of these filters here, so the settings of these filters, should of course affect which meals we see here
when we are in the category page,
so when we picked a category and we want to see the recipes here. Now we also of course have the
favorite tab, so if the favorites tab here is selected, then we still are on this page with the drawer
at the top and the tabs at the bottom but now this favorites tab is selected
and here we simply also have our recipes with the image and so on, so this list which we also had over there
but now only the recipes or the meals which we marked as a favorite which we can do from inside that
recipe detail page over there.
So from inside this page here, we can mark recipes or meals as a favorite.
So this is the overall app
we're going to build, as you can see, we'll have a couple of different pages there, a couple of different
screens which we need to connect and where we need to pass data back and forth, like for example the
settings we picked here, the filters we picked here would have to be passed down to filter our recipes
and when we select a recipe or when we select a category, we need to pass that info of that category
for example which was picked here to that category screen which shows the recipes for the category and
so on.
So a more complex and therefore more realistic application,
so let's now see which tools Flutter gives us to build such an app.